## Generate Parentheses 022

 Given n pairs of parentheses, write a function to generate all combinations of well-formed parentheses.

For example, given n = 3, a solution set is:
```
[
  "((()))",
  "(()())",
  "(())()",
  "()(())",
  "()()()"
]
```

## Java Backtracking

This algorithm was from leetcode, and uses backtracking. The idea behind it, is that this problem comprises a lot of smaller problems. Each of those smaller problems is generating a valid parentheses permutation. The idea behind using backtracking is will go through and generate one permutation, then backtrack to a previous state and generate one that is pretty similar but different. That function will take it's input string, and see if it can insert a beginning parentheses into it. If it can, it will insert one, and continue the recursion. If it can't (or when the recursive calls for that codepath finish) it will try to insert a closing parenthesis, and recurse down that path to generate permutations. 

So let's expalin what is going on here. We have a recursive function `insertion` that generates the permutations for us. It starts off by checking if the length of the string is equal to the input times `2`, since two parentheses make a valid pair. Then there are two if then statements, that if passed they will make recursive calls. The purpose of the first one, is to check if we can insert a beginning parentheses `(`. The only situation where we would not be able to, is if we've already exceeded the maximum amount of parentheses allowed, which would be equal to the numerical input. However we can only properly insert a closing parentheses `(` if we have a matching opening parentheses. So we can check if there are less closing parentheses than opening parentheses, which will tell us if we can insert one.

For the values of the recursive function, `results` is the input array we use to store our answers. `current` is the current string being constructed. The ints `open/close` keep track of the number of open / closed parentheses. And the `max` value just keeps track of the numerical input.

```
class Solution {
    public List<String> generateParenthesis(int n) {
        // Make the array
        List<String> results = new ArrayList();
        
        // Make the recursive calls to construct the array
        insertion(results, "", 0, 0, n);
        return results;
    }

    public void insertion(List<String> results, String current, int open, int close, int max)
    {
        // Check if this series of parenthesis are done
        if (current.length() == (max * 2)) 
        {
            results.add(current);
            return;
        }
        
        // See if we can add a valid beginning parenthesis
        if (open < max)
        {
            insertion(ans, current + '(', open+1, close, max);
        }
        
        // See if we can add a valid ending parenthesis
        if (open > close)
        {
            insertion(ans, current + ')', open, close+1, max);
        }
    }
}
```