## Description

Given a non-empty binary tree, find the maximum path sum.

For this problem, a path is defined as any sequence of nodes from some starting node to any node in the tree along the parent-child connections. The path must contain at least one node and does not need to go through the root.

## Java Recursion

The idea behind this solution is this. We use recursion and hit every node. Each function will return the greatest path starting from the node itself. It will get the value of paths from it's children nodes via the return values from the recursive calls. Now when we are getting the values from the left and right branches, we have to compare them against `0` which is where we don't take a path, since we could be dealing with negatives. Now each function call is made, we check if the value of the left and right branches plus the node value is greater than the highest path found so far, and if so update it. This would be a path from it's left path up to the node itself, and down the right path. The value returned is the larger path (either the left or right) plus the node value itself, since that could be used as part of a larger path sun.

The runtime cost is `O(n)`, since there is a recursive call made once per node. The memory cost however is `O(h)` where `h` is the height of the binary tree, which comes from the recursive calls. This is because the call stack for the recursive calls will scale directly with the height of the binary tree, not directly with the number of nodes.

```
class Solution {
    int max_value = Integer.MIN_VALUE;
    
    private int traverse(TreeNode root) {
        if (root == null) return 0;
        
        int total, leftValue, rightValue;
        
        leftValue = Math.max(traverse(root.left), 0);
        rightValue = Math.max(traverse(root.right), 0);
        
        total = leftValue + rightValue + root.val;

        max_value = Math.max(total, max_value);
        
        return root.val + Math.max(leftValue, rightValue);
        
    }
    
    public int maxPathSum(TreeNode root) {
        traverse(root);
        return max_value;
  }
}
```