## Description

Implement int sqrt(int x).

Compute and return the square root of x, where x is guaranteed to be a non-negative integer.

Since the return type is an integer, the decimal digits are truncated and only the integer part of the result is returned.

## Java Linear Pass

So this was my first solution to this challenge. The idea behind it is I linearly iterate from `0` to `x`, checking for the square root. Since the square root has to have the decimal truncated I check not only if this is the square root, but if the square of the next number is greater than `x`.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is pretty bad at `O(x)`. The memory cost for this algorithm is `O(1)`.

```
class Solution {
    public int mySqrt(int x) 
    {
        if ((x == 0) || (x == 1)) return x;
        if (x == Integer.MAX_VALUE) return 46340;

        int n = x/2;
        for (int i = 1; i <= (n); i++)
        {
            if ((((i + 1) * (i + 1)) > x) || ((i * i) == x)) return i;
        }
        
        return x;
    }
}
```

## Java Binary Search

So this solution is a greatly optimized solution for this challenge from leetcode. The idea behind this is we use a binary search to find the square. We initialize the leftside of the search bounds to `2` (since `0-1` are checked for prior) and the rightside to `(x/2) + 1` since for all numbers greater than `1`, `x^2 >= x*2`. So the square root has to be less than or equal to `x/2`.

As we do the binary search, we check if the square of the pivot is greater than, or less than the input number, and pivot accordingly. Now if there does exist a perfect square, we should find it and the `else` statement should find it since `pivot^2` will equal `x`.

One improvement this makes, we store the product in a sum so we can store some numbers greater than `Integer.MAX_VALUE`. 

Now if there isn't a perfect square (like for most numbers) the leftEnd will pass the rightEnd, which is the termination condition for the loop. When this happens, we know the square root is in `rightEnd`. The reason for that being since it isn't a perfect square the final pivot's square will be greater than the input integer, since we aren't dealing with decimals. The right pivot is set to one less than the pivot in that event, which in that circumstance will be the square.

The runtime is `O(log(x))` where `x` is the input integer since we are doing a binary search. The memory cost is `O(1)`.

```
class Solution 
{
    public int mySqrt(int x) 
    {
        if ((x == 0) || (x == 1)) return x;

        int leftEnd, rightEnd, pivot;
        long y;
        
        // Initialize the bounds, and the pivot
        leftEnd = 2;
        rightEnd = (x / 2) + 1;
        pivot = (rightEnd + leftEnd) / 2;
        
        // Commence the binary search            
        while (leftEnd <= rightEnd)
        {
            y = (long) pivot * pivot;
            if (y > x)
            {
                rightEnd = pivot - 1;
            }
            
            else if (y < x)
            {
                
                leftEnd = pivot + 1;
            }
            
            
            else return pivot;
            
            pivot = (rightEnd + leftEnd) / 2;
        }
        
        return rightEnd;
    }
}
```