## Description

Given an integer array nums, find the contiguous subarray (containing at least one number) which has the largest sum and return its sum.

```
Example:

Input: [-2,1,-3,4,-1,2,1,-5,4],
Output: 6
Explanation: [4,-1,2,1] has the largest sum = 6.

Follow up:

If you have figured out the O(n) solution, try coding another solution using the divide and conquer approach, which is more subtle.
```

## Java Greedy Algorithm

So the first solution is to use a greedy algorithm. A greedy algorithm is one that solves a larger problems by solving the smaller problems that comprise it, and at each smaller problem it chooses what is the best at that time. The idea being that by finding the best solution for the smaller problems, it finds the best solution overall.

What that means here, is we will iterate through the input array. As we iterate through the input, we will keep track of two values. Our current sum, and the maximum sum. The current sum will be updated every iteration. It will be set to either the current number, or the current number plus the current sum, whichever is larger. The reason for this is if the current sum turns negative, we will go with the current number (since adding the current sum can only decrement the value). If the current number is greater than `-1`, then it can only either increment the value, or have it stay the same. In either case, we are left with the sum of a subarray from that portion of the array.

Of course, the current sum can be decremented. This happens when the current number `nums[i]` is negative. That is why every time we update the current sum, we check if it is greater than the maximum sum, and if so we update that.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(n)` where `n` is the number of numbers in the input array. This is because we iterate through the array, starting at the second element. The memory cost is `O(1)` since we use a static amount of variables to store our data. This solution was inspired from the leetcode one.

```
class Solution {
    public int maxSubArray(int[] nums) {
        int c, m, n;
        
        n = nums.length;
        c = m = nums[0];
        
        for (int i = 1; i < n; i++)
        {
            if (c < 0) c = nums[i];
            else c += nums[i];
            m = Math.max(c, m);
        }
        return m;
    }
}
```

## Java Dynamic Programming

For this solution, we use Dynamic Programming, which is where we break the problem down into smaller sub-problems, solve those, and then look at the results to determine what is the best solution.

Similar to the above solution, we iterate through the input array. As we do, we check if the previous number in the array is greater than `0`. If it is, then we know if we add that to this value, then it can only increment it. So we set that number in the array equal to itself plus the previous number. 

This will overwrite a lot of the values in the input array. What the new numbers will represent is the maximum value an array can have, if that particular spot is included. Of course each time we calculate this value, we will check if the maximum sum needs to be updated, since the maximum sub-array may not include that point.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(n)` where `n` is the number of numbers in the input array. This is because we iterate through the array, starting at the second element. The memory cost is `O(1)` since we use a static amount of variables to store our data. This solution was inspired from the leetcode one.

```
class Solution {
    public int maxSubArray(int[] nums) {
        int m, n;
        
        n = nums.length;
        m = nums[0];
        
        for (int i = 1; i < n; i++)
        {
            if (nums[i - 1] > 0) nums[i] += nums[i - 1];
            m = Math.max(nums[i], m);
        }
        return m;
    }
}
```

