## Description

Given an array of integers nums, write a method that returns the "pivot" index of this array.

We define the pivot index as the index where the sum of all the numbers to the left of the index is equal to the sum of all the numbers to the right of the index.

If no such index exists, we should return -1. If there are multiple pivot indexes, you should return the left-most pivot index.

## Java Three Pass

So this was my initial solution to this challenge. It involves three passes through the input array. With the first pass, I calculate the sums from the left perspective for each index, and store it in the hashMap. For the second pass, I calculate the sums from the right perspective for each index and store it in another hashMap. With the final pass, I just check if there exists an index where the left and right sums are equal.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(3*n)` -> `O(n)` because of the three passes, and the memory cost is `O(2n)` -> `O(n)` because of the two hashMaps.

```
class Solution {
    public int pivotIndesum(int[] nums) {
        int i, sum, n;
        int[] leftSums, rightSums;
        
        n = nums.length;
        
        leftSums = new int[n];
        rightSums = new int[n];
        
        sum = 0;
        
        for (i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            leftSums[i] = sum;
            sum += nums[i];
        }
        
        sum = 0;
        
        for (i = n - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
            rightSums[i] = sum;
            sum += nums[i];
        }
        
        for (i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            if (leftSums[i] == rightSums[i]) {
                return i;
            }
        }
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```

## Java Prefix Sum

This is an optimized solution from leetcode. It accomplishes the same thing, but with two passes, and constant memory. 

With the first pass, we calculate the total sum of the array. With the second pass is when we find the pivot. As we iterate through, we can calculate the sum from the perspective of the left. With this sum from the left perspective, and the total sum, we can calculate the sum from the perspective of the left, which is the total sum minus the sum from the perspective of the left, and the current value. With the sums from the left and right perspectives, we can check if this is the pivot index.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(2*n)` -> `O(n)` because of the two passes. The memory cost for this algorithm is `O(1)`.

```
class Solution 
{
    public int pivotIndex(int[] nums) 
    {
        int sum, leftsum;
        
        sum = leftsum = 0;
        
        // Calculate the total sum
        for (int x: nums) sum += x;
        
        // Iterate through the input array
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++)
        {
            // Check if this is the pivot index
            if (leftsum == (sum - leftsum - nums[i])) return i;
            
            leftsum += nums[i];
        }
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```