## Description

A robot is located at the top-left corner of a m x n grid (marked 'Start' in the diagram below).

The robot can only move either down or right at any point in time. The robot is trying to reach the bottom-right corner of the grid (marked 'Finish' in the diagram below).

How many possible unique paths are there?

## Java Dynamic Program

This solution is inspired by the leetcode help. It uses Dynamic Programming which is the process of solving a problem by breaking it down into smaller subproblems, and leveraging those results to solve the larger problem.

Thing is for this problem, since we start in the upper left hand corner, the number of unique paths to a spot directly scales with the number of spots it's away. For instance:

(number indicates number of unique paths for it's spot)

```
1	1	1
1	2	3
1	3	4
1	4	8
```

We can see here that the number of unique paths directly relies on the number of unique paths for the spot above it, and to it's left. So what we can do with our algorithm is allocate a 2-D array the size of the board, with all of the values initialized to `1` (which the beginning ones will be). Then we iterate through the board starting with the spots with less paths (but more than `1`), and calculate it's path by adding the paths of the spots above it and to it's left. After we calculate all of them, we just return the right corner's value to have it.

The runtime cost for this algorith is `O(m * n)`, since we have to run a loop for each spot on the board (excluding top and left sides), and there are `O(m * n)`  spots. In addition to that we have to initialize the values, which takes `O(m * n)` steps. The space complexity is also `O(m * n)` due to the size of the 2-D array we allocate. 

```
class Solution {
    public int uniquePaths(int m, int n) {
        int i, j;
        
        // Make our 2-D Array
        int paths[][] = new int[m][n];
        
        // Initialize 2-D Array values with 1
        for (int[] array : paths)
        {
            Arrays.fill(array, 1);
        }
        
        // Initialize j to avoid compiler warning
        j = 1;
        
        // Iterate through all of the spots
        // except for the top and left sides
        for (i = 1; i < m; i++)
        {
            for (j = 1; j < n; j++)
            {
                // Set a spots paths equal to the sum of the above and left spots
                paths[i][j] = paths[i - 1][j] + paths[i][j - 1];
            }
        }
        
        return paths[i - 1][j - 1];
    }
}
```


