## Description

Given a non-empty array of integers, every element appears three times except for one, which appears exactly once. Find that single one.

Note:

Your algorithm should have a linear runtime complexity. Could you implement it without using extra memory?

Example 1:

```
Input: [2,2,3,2]
Output: 3
```

Example 2:

```
Input: [0,1,0,1,0,1,99]
Output: 99
```

## Solution Python3 Hashmap

So this solution is the exact same solution from 136. I literally copied and pasted my code from that to this one, since the algorithm was exactly the same. This is because this algorithm will find the one non-repeated value from within a list of repeated values. How many times those other values are repeated does not matter. The runtime and memory costs are still the same, both at `O(n)`.

```
class Solution:
    def singleNumber(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        # Length of the input array
        length = len(nums)
        
        # Initialize the hash map
        hashMap = defaultdict(int)
        
        # Increment the values
        for i in range(0, length):
            hashMap[nums[i]] += 1
        
        # Return the desired value
        for i in hashMap.keys():
            if hashMap[i] == 1:
                return i
```

## Solution Python3 Binary Operations

This is sort of similar to the `136 Python3 xoring` solution, but a bit more complicated. Also like that solution, this one came from leetcode. I thought it was pretty cool so I included it. 

Like the earlier solution, this one revolves around the xoring principles, where `x` xored by `0` is `x`, and `x` xored by `x` is `0`. This also revolves around binary nots, and ands.

A binary not will essentially flip ones and zeros of the binary. For instance:

```
5  = 101
~5 = 010
```

And anding is a binary operator that takes two numbers, and outputs a number that has ones from both numbers. For instance:

```
13 = 1101
6  = 0100
13 & 6 = 1101 & 0100 = 0100 = 6
``` 

Now we will be using these principles to get the desired number. Essentially this is the process. We will have two values. One that stores values that have only appeared once, and another that will store values that appear multiple times. 

So for adding a value to another value, we will use the `xor` principle. Just like in the last example, we can xor multiple values across a single value, then xor them out. We will be doing this for both values, the one that holds values we've seen once, and once that we have seen multiple times.

Now we will xor it against the value for first time values first. In addition to that, we will have a mechanism to prevent a value from one of the two values being stored in the second one. This will be done by anding each value by the binary not of the other one. This will cause all of the values stored in one value to be anded out and removed.

So how this will work, is we will first start off by adding the value to the first variable via xor. Then the binary and/not will prevent it from being added to the second variable. proceeding that when that value gets run across again, it will get xored from the first variable, and xored into the second variable since it's no longer present in the first variable the binary and/not will not prevent it. Following that, that value will remain in the second variable and prevent that number from entering the first variable again. After the algorithm runs, the first variable will contain the desired value.

In terms of runtime, we have an `O(n)` runtime since we iterate through each input item. As for the memory usage, we have an `O(1)` since the memory used is just two variables that doesn't change with an increase in input size.

```
class Solution:
    def singleNumber(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        # Initialize our two values
        x = 0
        y = 0
        
        # Iterate through all of our inputs
        for i in nums:
            # Handle the filter for first seen values
            x = x ^ i
            x = (~y) & x

            # Handle the filter for second seen values
            y = y ^ i
            y = (~x) & y
            
        # Return the desired value
        return x
```


