## Description

Given a non-empty array of integers, every element appears twice except for one. Find that single one.

Note:

Your algorithm should have a linear runtime complexity. Could you implement it without using extra memory?

Example 1:

```
Input: [2,2,1]
Output: 1
```

Example 2:

```
Input: [4,1,2,1,2]
Output: 4
```

## Solution Hashmap Python3

So this algorithm revolves around a hash table. We iterate through each item of the input, and increment a value stored in the hash table, with the number as a key. After we iterate through all of the input numbers, all of the values except for one should be two, with the number we are looking for being one. Then we can just iterate through the dictionary searching for whichever value is one, and return it's key.

When I first solved this problem, it wasn't entirely the most optimal. For initializing the dictionary, I iterated through the input list setting each needed value to `0`. Instead I could have just called `defaultdict(int)` which would save me another iteration through the input list.

In terms of runtime, this is an `O(n)` algorithm. The reason for that is there are two loops in this algorithm, one that runs for `O(n)` times, and the other that runs for `O((n/2) + 1)` times, which gives us an `O(n)` runtime. The memory cost of this algorithm is `O(n)`, because we need to store `O((n/2) + 1)` items in the hash map, so the memory consumed linearly scales with the input.

```
class Solution:
    def singleNumber(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        # Length of the input array
        length = len(nums)
        
        # Better way of initializing the hash map
        hashMap = defaultdict(int)
        
        # Old way of initializing the hash map
        #for i in range(0, length):
        #   print(nums[i])
        #    hashMap[nums[i]] = 0

        # Increment the values
        for i in range(0, length):
            hashMap[nums[i]] += 1
        
        # Return the desired value
        for i in hashMap.keys():
            if hashMap[i] == 1:
                return i
```

## Solution Xoring Python3

So this is a pretty cool solution from leetcode, that makes a lot of sense. It revolves around xoring. Here are some basic principles first:

With xoring, anything xored by `0` is itself. For instance:
```
5 ^ 0 = 5
```

Anything xored by itself is `0` (common way assembly code zeroes out a register), for instance:

```
5 ^ 5 = 0
```

Following this logic, since all but one number is repeated, and if we start with zero, if we xor all the values together, we will end up with the desired value. For instance let's say we have this input:

```
input: [6, 5, 3, 4, 3, 5, 6]

x = 0
x = 0 ^ 6 = 6
x = 6 ^ 5 = 3
x = 3 ^ 3 = 0
x = 0 ^ 4 = 4
x = 4 ^ 3 = 7
x = 7 ^ 5 = 2
x = 2 ^ 6 = 4

x = 4
```

The code for this is pretty simple:

```
class Solution:
    def singleNumber(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        # Initialize to zero
        x = 0
        
        # Iterate through the list
        for i in nums:
            # Xor out all of the repeated numbers
            x = x ^ i
            
        # Return the desired value
        return x
```

The runtime cost for it is still `O(n)` because the loop will run `n` times. However the memory cost shrinks to `O(1)` since the only memory consumed is a single variable, that does not change with the input size.