## Description

Given an array of non-negative integers, you are initially positioned at the first index of the array.

Each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that position.

Determine if you are able to reach the last index.

## Java Backtracking

This was my first solution to this problem. It does solve the problem, however it does not do it within the time limit. The idea behind it is we recursively follow all of the different paths we can take via the different jumps, until we either exhaust all of them or find one that leads us to the end.

This is done via looking at a particular index (starting at index `0`). We check to see that this spot is not the end of the array, or past it. Then we recurse through all of the spots it can go to with a for loop from `i + 1` to `i + x` where `i` is the current index, and `x` is the value of the spot at `i`. Then we repeat the process for the spots we go to. 

```
class Solution {
    public boolean jump(int nums[], int spot) {
        // Check if we have reached the end of the array
        if (spot >= nums.length - 1) return true;
        
        // Get the max number of spaces we can jump for this spot
        int x = nums[spot];
        
        // Check that it is a non-zero value
        if (x > 0) {
            // Continue jumping down each possible spot
            for (int i = 1; i <= x; i++) {
                if (jumpp(nums, spot + i))
                    return true;
            }
        }
        
        // No path to end from this spot
        return false;
    }
    
    
    public boolean canJump(int[] nums) {
        // Check for empty input
        if (nums.length == 0) return false;
        
        // Recursively execute depth first search
        return jump(nums, 0);
        
    }
}
```

## Java Dynamic Programming Bottom Up

So this was a solution off of leetcode. The idea behind this solution is this. We work backwards from the end of the array, to the start of the array. As we do so, we check to see if a particular index can reach the end. If it can, we mark it as a valid index. This way as we are checking, we don't have to check if each index can reach a valid index, only that it can reach another valid index.

To do this, we allocate another array the size of the input array. We part the spots in this array either `VALID` to mean they can reach the back of the array, or `UNKNOWN` for if we aren't sure if the can. We mark all spots in the array as `UNKNOWN` to start off with, except for the last spot, since that can reach itself no matter what the value is, so we mark that as `VALID`. Then we start iterating backwards through the input array, starting with the second lastmost element in the array (since that is the first `UNKNOWN` element we will reach). We determine what the furthest spot that spot can jump to, which is either the index of the spot plus the value of the jump, or the end of the array if it can jump past the end of the array. Then we iterate through all of the spots it can check, checking if any of them are `VALID`. If it is, that means it can jump to a `VALID` spot, thus the spot itself is `VALID`. Then we move onto the next element, and continue iterating through the rest of the array. After this, if the first element is `VALID`, that means there is at least one path from the beginning to the end.

```
enum Index {
    VALID, UNKNOWN
}

public class Solution {  
    public boolean canJump(int nums[]) {
        Index[] validation = new Index[nums.length];
        
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
            validation[i] = Index.UNKNOWN;
        }
        
        validation[nums.length - 1] = Index.VALID;
        
        for (int i = nums.length - 2; i >= 0; i--) {
            int furthestSpot = Math.min(i + nums[i], nums.length - 1);
            for (int j = i + 1; j <= furthestSpot; j++) {
                if (validation[j] == Index.VALID) {
                    validation[i] = Index.VALID;
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        
       return validation[0] == Index.VALID;
    }
}
```