## Java One Pass

To solve this problem in a single pass, we break it down into two separate problems.

So for this challenge, we have to traverse the circle in a clockwise direction, gaining / losing gas at every stop. Now we can check if it is possible to traverse the circle via summing up all of the gas gains / expenditures. Due to the principles of math, the order in which we add numbers doesn't change the end result. We will use that here to determine if it is possible to traverse the circle. If the gas gains are greater than or equal to the gas expenditures, it is possible to traverse the circle.

Now we move onto the second problem. Assuming that it is possible to traverse the circle, what is the starting index if we traverse it clockwise. What we do is we keep a `current` sum, which represents the sum with respect to the last starting index. We will reset the starting index and the current sum if it goes below 0.

Now this will do for us several things. First off, if we get to another index and we don't reset, that means that the current sum is greater than or equal to `0`. That means that we don't carry over a negative sum which could potentially throw off a valid starting index. If our current sum falls below zero, we know that the starting index cannot be between our first starting index and where we currently are. As such, it must lie in the remainder of the array, if there is a starting index.

So we choose the next index as the new starting index, and reset the sum. When we finish iterating through the array, we know that the last stating index we choose must be the starting index, assuming a valid one exists.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(n)` because we make a single pass through the input array. The memory cost is `O(1)`.

```
class Solution 
{
    public int canCompleteCircuit(int[] gas, int[] cost) 
    {
        int total, currentTotal, startingIndex;
        total = currentTotal = startingIndex = 0;
        
        // Iterate through input array
        for (int i = 0; i < gas.length; i++)
        {
            total += gas[i] - cost[i];
            currentTotal += gas[i] - cost[i];
            
            // Check if the starting position needs to be reset
            if (currentTotal < 0)
            {
                currentTotal = 0;
                startingIndex = i + 1;
            }
        }
        
        // Check if it is possible to loop
        if (total >= 0) return startingIndex;
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```