## Description

Given an array, rotate the array to the right by k steps, where k is non-negative.

## Java Array

So this was my first solution to this problem. The idea behind it is we allocate a mirror array to the input. We iterate through the input array, coping each item to the shifted spot in the other array. After that is done, we just move all of the elements from the shifted array to the original.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(n)`. The memory cost which comes from the shift array is also `O(n)`.

```
class Solution {
    public void rotate(int[] nums, int k) {
        int n = nums.length;

        k = k % n;
        
        int[] shifted = new int[n];
        
        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            shifted[k] = nums[i];
            k = (k + 1) % n;
        }
        
        for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            nums[i] = shifted[i];
        }
            
    }
}
```

## Java Cycle Replacements

So the idea behind this algorithm is to shift an array by `k` spots, we take each array index, and move it over `k` spots. What this ends up being is we iterate through the array, take a value at an index, move it to the spot `k` spots over, take the value that was stored there and move it another `k` spots over, and so on and so forth until we've rotated the entire array.

The issue here we need to deal with is that depending on the array size and `k`, loops can appear. For instance let's say we have an input array of size `4` and `k` of `2`. If we start at index `0`, we will just jump between indices `0` and `2`, and never touch indices `1` and `3`. This is a problem that I spent a lot of time working on, and used leetcode to help.

So how we solve this problem is we keep the index that we started iterating through, and if we see that we've come across it again, we restart iterating at an index `1` off from the last one. That way if there are loops that appear, we will cycle through each of them once.

How this is implemented is with a nested loop. The outer loop essentially just controls the starting index, with the innerloop actually handling the rotations. The outer loop termination condition is if the inner loop has run once for every item in the input array, so we still have a linear runtime.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(n)`, and the memory cost is `O(1)`.

```
class Solution
{
    public void rotate(int[] nums, int k)
    {
        // Get a k that is smaller than nums.length
        k = k % nums.length;

        int current, tmp, write, j, swaps;
        swaps = 0;
        
        // Iterate through the input array
        for (int i = 0; swaps < nums.length; i++)
        {
            j = i;
            write = nums[j];

            // Iterate through this loop
            do
            {
                // Swap one element
                j = (j + k) % nums.length;
                tmp = nums[j];
                nums[j] = write;
                write = tmp;
                swaps++;
            }
            
            // Iterate until this loop is done
            while (j != i);
        }
      
    }
}
```
