## Description

Given an array of integers and an integer k, find out whether there are two distinct indices i and j in the array such that nums[i] = nums[j] and the absolute difference between i and j is at most k.

## Java HashMap

This was my first solution to this problem. The idea behind it is this. We do a linear sweep of the input array. We use a HashMap, where the key is a value we've seen in the array and the value is the last index that we've seen the value at. Since we are given a max distance, the one position we care about for a duplicate is the last one we've seen, since that will be the closest. Using the value, we check if it meets the size requirement, and if it does it contains a specified duplicate.

The runtime cost for this algorithm which comes from the linear sweep is `O(n)`, and the memory cost which comes from the hashmap is `O(n)`:

```
class Solution {
    public boolean containsNearbyDuplicate(int[] nums, int k) {
        int i, n;
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> seenNums;
        
        seenNums = new HashMap<Integer, Integer>();
        n = nums.length;
        
        for (i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            if (seenNums.containsKey(nums[i])) {
                if ((i - seenNums.get(nums[i])) <= k) return true;
            }
            
            seenNums.put(nums[i], i);
        }
        
        return false;
    }
}
```

## Java Binary Tree

This is a bit more of an interesting solution off of leetcode. The premise of it is this. We insert the elements into a BST (Binary Search Tree). This BST resembles the current values we are checking with the given range. We can check if the size of the BST is greater than the given max size, and remove the oldest element in there if it is, to keep it within that range. We can then check for duplicates by seeing if the BST has that value.

Now since we are using a BST, insert/lookup/delete operations will take around `log(n)` time. The runtime cost of this algorith is `O(nlog(x))` where `x` is the shorter value between `k/n`, since we have to do around `n` number of BST operations, which have `log(bst_nodes)` cost. The memory cost which comes from the BST is `O(x)`.

```
class Solution {
    public boolean containsNearbyDuplicate(int[] nums, int k) {
        int i, n;
        Set<Integer> bst;
        
        bst = new TreeSet<Integer>();
        n = nums.length;
        
        for (i = 0; i < n; i++) {
            if (bst.contains(nums[i])) return true;
            
            // Add the next node
            bst.add(nums[i]);
            
            // Ensure bst is within the allowed range
            if (bst.size() > k) {
                bst.remove(nums[i - k]);
            }
        }
        
        return false;
    }
}
```