## Description

Given an array nums containing n + 1 integers where each integer is between 1 and n (inclusive), prove that at least one duplicate number must exist. Assume that there is only one duplicate number, find the duplicate one.

## Java Sorting

So this is the easiest solution. Essentially, we just sort the array, then check if adjacent integers are equal (since it's sorted, duplicate numbers must be adjacent). The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(log(n) * n + n)`, the `log(n) * n` from the sorting and the `n` is from the subsequent linear pass. The memory cost associated with it is `O(1)` since we sort and modify the input array in place.

```
class Solution {
    public int findDuplicate(int[] nums) {
        Arrays.sort(nums);
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length - 1; i++) {
            if (nums[i] == nums[i + 1]) return nums[i];
        }
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```

## Java turtle / rabbit

So this solution was off of leetcode.

The premise of this idea, is that we view each number in the array as an index (we can do that since the numbers only range from `0` to `n - 1`). The thing is, if we traverse the list starting at the first integer and the next integer is whatever number is at the index of the current spot, we will evantually end up in a loop. This is because there is one number that is duplicated, it will force us back to one spot continually.

So to find this, it's a two step process. We have two pointers, one that moves one spots per unit of time, the other that moves two. The first step is we find the intersection of the two spots in the loop. Then the second step is we move the turtle back to the start of the list, set the speed of the rabbit to `1`, and see where they meet. The thing is, the time it will take the turtle to reach the beginning of the cycle is the same amount of time it will take the rabbit to reach this. As a result, where they meet will be the start of the cycle. That index will be the repeated value.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is a linear `O(n)`, and the memory cost for this algorithm is `O(1)`.

```
class Solution {
    public int findDuplicate(int[] nums) {
        
        int squirtle = nums[0];
        int treeko = nums[0];
        
        do {
            squirtle = nums[squirtle];
            treeko = nums[nums[treeko]];
        } while (squirtle != treeko);
            
        squirtle = nums[0];
        while (squirtle != treeko) {
            squirtle = nums[squirtle];
            treeko = nums[treeko];
        }
        
        return treeko;
    }
}
```