## Description

You are a product manager and currently leading a team to develop a new product. Unfortunately, the latest version of your product fails the quality check. Since each version is developed based on the previous version, all the versions after a bad version are also bad.

Suppose you have n versions [1, 2, ..., n] and you want to find out the first bad one, which causes all the following ones to be bad.

You are given an API bool isBadVersion(version) which will return whether version is bad. Implement a function to find the first bad version. You should minimize the number of calls to the API.

## Java Binary Search

So originally for this problem I didn't fully understand the problem. I thought there would be instances where `isBadVersion(4)` would return false whereas `isBadVersion(3)` would return true. As such I tired a linear pass, but then realized that the above situation wouldn't occur. As such I went with a binary search since it is a lot faster.

So for this, it's a pretty standard binary search. One issue I ran into was I originally had the pivot set to `(leftEnd + rightEnd) / 2`, which would sometimes cause an Integer Overflow which would cause a lot of issues.

In addition to that, with our binary search, we will end up with two elements. In that circumstance the pivot will be the leftEnd. The reason for that is the pivot is set to `leftEnd  + ((rightEnd - leftEnd) / 2)`. The `(rightEnd - leftEnd)` will yield `1`, and `1/2 = 0` since we are dealing with integers. When that happens, the pivot will not be a bad version, and incremented by 1 to the rightEnd, which will be the value we are looking for.

The runtime cost for this algorithm is `O(log(n))` since we do a binary search. The memory cost for this algorithm is `O(1)`.

```
/* The isBadVersion API is defined in the parent class VersionControl.
      boolean isBadVersion(int version); */

public class Solution extends VersionControl 
{
    public int firstBadVersion(int n) 
    {
        int leftEnd, rightEnd, pivot;
        
        // Initialize the bounds and pivot of binary search
        leftEnd = 0;
        rightEnd = n;
        pivot = leftEnd + (rightEnd - leftEnd) / 2;

        // Execute the binary search
        while (rightEnd > leftEnd)
        {
            // Check which half the desired value is
            if (isBadVersion(pivot)) rightEnd = pivot;
            else leftEnd = pivot + 1;

            // Set the new pivot
            pivot = leftEnd + (rightEnd - leftEnd) / 2;
        }
        return leftEnd;
    }
}
```