## Description

Given a string, find the length of the longest substring without repeating characters.

Example 1:

```
Input: "abcabcbb"
Output: 3 
Explanation: The answer is "abc", with the length of 3. 
```

Example 2:

```
Input: "bbbbb"
Output: 1
Explanation: The answer is "b", with the length of 1.
```

Example 3:

```
Input: "pwwkew"
Output: 3
Explanation: The answer is "wke", with the length of 3. 
             Note that the answer must be a substring, "pwke" is a subsequence and not a substring.
```

## Sliding Window Java

This is the first time in a while I've dealt with a problem like this, so this solution is from leetcode.

So a substring in this context is a string within the larger string, that has no repeated characters. How this approach solves it is through the use of a figurative window. This window has two ends, which will be moved as we iterate through the string. For this, the window effectively represents the substring. As we iterate through the string, if we reach a character that isn't in the string, we will move the front end forward which effectively expands the substring. If we reach a character that is in the string, we will move the back end forward, until that character isn't present, so the substring can hold the new character, which shrinks the size of the substring.

For modeling the contents of the substring, we will use a hashset, since insertions/lookups/removals are all `O(1)` operations. For modeling the ends of the window, we will just use indexes to the input string. Also whenever we increase the size of the substring, we check if that is the largest substring at that time.

The runtime cost for implementing this algorithm is `O(n)`. This is because this algorithm iterates through the string. The memory cost associated with this algorithm is `O(m)` where `m` is whatever is smaller between the current character set, and the input string. The reason for the character set is because if the character set only supports `x` characters, then the max substring can only contain `x` characters.

```
class Solution {
    public int lengthOfLongestSubstring(String s) {
        // Initialize our integers, and our hashSet
        int n, i, j, maxSize;
        n = s.length();
        Set<Character> hashes = new HashSet<>(); 
        maxSize = i = j = 0;
        
        // Iterate until either side reaches end
        while ((i < n) && (j < n))
        {
            if (hashes.contains(s.charAt(j)))
            {
                // Character is in substring
                // shrink window until it is no longer present
                hashes.remove(s.charAt(i));
                i += 1;

            }
            else
            {
                // Character isn't in substring
                // Insert character into substring
                // Check if it is largest substring
                hashes.add(s.charAt(j));
                j += 1;
                maxSize = Math.max(maxSize, j - i);
            }
        }
        
        return maxSize;
    }
}
```

## Optimized Sliding Window Java

This algorithm is pretty similar to the above one, and is also from leetcode.

So the idea behind this is we optimize the part of the algorithm that occurs when we encounter a character in the substring. In the algorithm above, we move the lower end up by one until the character can be inserted into the substring. This new algorithm will move the back end up as many spaces as needed, in order to be able to insert the substring, instead of moving it up by one.

In order to do this, we leverage a hashMap. When we insert a character into the hashMap, we store an integer as the value. That value is the index of the next character after that string. Also when we do this, we will need to check to ensure that the backend has not already been moved past that point, otherwise we could end up expanding the substring when we meant to shrink it.

The runtime cost is still `O(n)`. However when we look at the old algorithm, in the worst case scenario where it has to move the backend across the entire input, the worst case for that would be `O(2n)` versus here which is `O(n)`. Both are linear runtimes however one leads to less unneeded work. The memory cost is still `O(m)` where `m` is the lesser between the number of characters in the character set, and the input string.

```
class Solution {
    public int lengthOfLongestSubstring(String s) {
        // Initialize our integers, and our hashMap
        int n, i, j, maxSize;
        n = s.length();
        Map<Character, Integer> hashMap = new HashMap<>(); 
        maxSize = i = j = 0;
        
        // Iterate until either side reaches end
        for (j = 0; j < n; j++)
        {
        	if (hashMap.containsKey(s.charAt(j)))
        	{
                // Optimized method of shrinking the substring
        		i = Math.max(i, hashMap.get(s.charAt(j)));
        	}

            // Check if maxSize needs to be updated
        	maxSize = Math.max(maxSize, (j - i) + 1);
            
            // Insert the character into the substring
        	hashMap.put(s.charAt(j), j + 1);
        }
        
        return maxSize;
    }
}
```