

## Java Sorting

So this is the easiest way I can think of to solve this. Effectively I sort it using the java `Arrays.sort()` function. Then after that I return the desired value, which is at the index `arrayLength - x` where `x` is the desired value.

The runtime cost from this algorithm comes from `Arrays.sort()`, which gives us an `O(log(n) * n)` runtime cost.

```
class Solution {
    public int findKthLargest(int[] nums, int k) {
        Arrays.sort(nums); 
        return nums[nums.length - k];
    }
}
```

## Java Minheap

This algorithm is more optimized than the above one, in terms of runtime cost. The idea here is we use a minHeap. A minHeap is a complete binary tree, where the parent node has a value that is either equal to, or less than it's children. The idea here being we iterate through all of the input nodes, and insert each one into the minheap. When the minheap grows to be bigger than the number we are looking for (if we were looking for the third greatest, it would be when it was bigger than `3`), we will remove the top element from the min heap. Then after we are done, the top element of the minheap will be the value we want (since only the `k` greatest elements will remain in the minheap). 

The memory cost associated with this algorithm is `O(k)`, because we will need to store that many items in the minheap. The runtime cost is `O(log(k) * n)`, the `n` coming from the linear sweep of the input array, and the `log(k)` coming from the minheap operations.

```
class Solution {
    public int findKthLargest(int[] nums, int k) {
        // Make the minheap
        PriorityQueue<Integer> minHeap = new PriorityQueue<Integer>();
        
        // Iterate through the input
        for (int n: nums)
        {
            // Add item to minheap
            minHeap.add(n);
            
            if (minHeap.size() > k)
            {
                // minheap has grown too much, remove smallest element
                minHeap.poll();
            }
        }
        
        return minHeap.poll();
    }
}
```